when I first started playing League of
Legends the best thing that helped me
improve right away was having friends
there that I could answer my questions I
could ask them anything and they would
know the answer gosu AI is a brand new
AI assistant that will help gamers win
more it's a gaming buddy that tracks the
game progress and suggests the best
strategies and tactics to help you win
more it will boost your confidence as a
player and it will entertain you along
the way it's a voice in a chat interface
that feels like a friend you can get so
much advice from your personal voice
assistant like what items to buy which
skills should I level up where should I
be placing Ward's and how can I Lane
better
gosu assistant knows all the answers win
more with their voice assistant today
and check the link in the description
down below to sign up
it's no secret that competitive play in
league of legends the game that the pros
play is entirely different than
soloqueue ranked that all of us scrubs
play by analyzing which champions are
played at the highest level you would
notice an interesting trend one type of
champion one class of champion has
always struggled to make its way into
competitive play which is the melee
carry this is a specific type of melee
champion though these are not the
ribbons Aurelia's or even current fiora
no these are different types of
champions these are the master yeasts
tryndamere's and yasuo's and I think
Yasuo is the only exception of a melee
carry that is truly usable at the
highest level unless you count gangplank
but even then he's kind of partially
ranged these champions are not about
being a bruiser a hybrid of damage and
tankyness with Black Cleaver in deaths
dance rather this is about damage and a
lot of it this is about a champion who
would rather build 6 infinity edges than
be caught dead building even one tank
item good is relative overpowered is
relative being terrible is relative but
bad design is that relative to all of
the other champions - or is it objective
are mainly carries objectively poorly
designed in this game that is hard to
say and I will leave that up to you to
discuss but without a doubt there is one
melee carry who was poorly designed a
champion so bad at the highest level
according to game of legends she was
never picked in competitive play not
even one time this is the story of one
of League of Legends Forgotten fighters
named fear
[Music]
looking at the champions released before
February 29 2012 one trend that you will
notice is that all of the true melee
carries like mastery Tryndamere and
Nocturne were all male champions and
while it's true like we said we did have
a few fighters like irelia and Riven who
are female no true carries fioors design
was around being specifically the first
melee carry female one who would not opt
for health resistances and items to help
you stay in the fight for a long time
but instead be master yi's 1v5 sidekick
her time would come on leap day february
29th 2012 and from the champion
spotlight
riot hits pretty hard at how aggressive
the champion was supposed to be with the
recommended items being completely
damaged oriented overall she was pretty
hyped coming into her release with one
article on engadget.com noting how
there's been a huge influx of mage
champions at the time and it was getting
a bit stale so a true melee carry would
spice things up we also had articles on
PC gamer in a round table discussing
league's newest champion from the very
beginning there was hope but
unfortunately sometimes in life hope is
not enough because fiora sucked
generally speaking fiora was just
underwhelming balance and power is
relative like we said for example I
don't necessarily think that Master Yi
is that good of a champion right now but
if Riot removed all hard CC from the
entire game well you know what he might
literally become the best champ in the
game it's important to compare League of
Legends champions to one another because
it matters a lot this is not a PvE game
mode you always have to fight against
other champions it's not really a game
where you're just fighting Baron
one-on-one with fiora by just looking at
her kit it doesn't look so bad at first
her passive was pretty nice helping her
out giving her sustain her q did help
you chase down people because you got to
use it twice and her applause blocked an
auto attack and dealt some damage back
to them as shown in the champion
spotlight against the champion like
nasus if you block his q it's pretty
favorable for her finally her II gave
her a nice steroid plus the phage
passive which allowed you to run people
down however this is superficial League
of Legends games are not won on paper
they are not won in the numbers but
rather in execution and when looking at
champions who fulfilled similar niches
to fiora it's no competition her
ultimate was her only saving grace this
ability was extremely good and iconic
for the old fiora there was even a bug
with Tiamat that made this ability let
her single-handedly win games but we
will get back to that in a bit for her
passive the numbers were extremely low
and even though it was a solid idea for
a passive in general it's pretty boring
because the healing wasn't comparable
anyway to other sustainability's in the
game so it was written off as mediocre
her repost again although super cool in
theory because of the nature of fencing
and being a duelist was unfortunately
completely outclassed by other champions
defensive abilities Jax's counter-strike
does damage to but also stuns people and
block all autos for a few seconds not
just one auto obviously champions like
Tryndamere also have insane Ultimates
effectively making him infinitely tanky
for a few seconds master he could go
untargetable on a basic ability that
also resets its cooldown and his
meditate has always been underrated for
a defensive ability because when it's
used properly it
gates a lot of damage Yasuo has a
passive shield and a wind wall and hard
CC and of course Nocturne has a spell
shield and his built-in passive sustain
was much stronger and he has hard CC
with his fear for fiora her I felt lame
although the movement speed was pretty
good in the attack speed was awesome it
didn't last for very long one thing that
I will say is that during that short
period of time that you did activate
your e fee or had to been one of the
fastest tower killers in the game it
gave upwards of a hundred and twenty
percent bonus attack speed and I
remember this being one of the parts
that I loved about her kit you would
turn on e and melt towers one thing that
also went under the radar during the
time is how strong her early game was I
mean very early levels like one two
three because of the insane passive ad
that you got from your W riposte give
you 15 AD at level one it didn't scale
that well only up to 35 when you maxed
it but she would have almost a hundred
AD at level three when her opponents
would be somewhere in the 70s or 80s and
then added up to be a lot on auto
attacks as we said The Shining part of
her kit was her ultimate and to be
honest it was straight-up
opie there was nothing wrong with it it
was a really good ability the best part
about it is that it applied on hit
effects such as black cleavers armor
shred and even life steel turns out
players would take this one step further
and theorycraft and ask themselves
okay what about Tiamat when you think
about press R type champions in League
of Legends you know those ones that pop
off by just pressing one button you
didn't have to look any further than
Tiamat stacking fiora you see Tiamat
used to work differently than it does
now because it allowed the passive which
is the cleave effect to stack up
multiple times that Morty mattes that
you got I don't know if this was a bug
or it was intended but the point is it
worked and it was ridiculously good on
champions like twitch when he pressed R
yeah it worked on range champions you
heard me right but there's also a famous
clip of wings of death doing it on
Shyvana to completely one-shot Penta
kill the enemy team however no other
champions synergized that well with
Tiamat stacking the same way fiora did
it was famously Opie for her
back in 2014 jeab a 99 released a video
called the fiora effect and he outlines
in effect that he describes as being
okay or not too bad for soloqueue
but absolutely terrible for competitive
play as he continues on he notes that
the aura can still snowball if you get
going with a few kills and because of
her massively impactful ultimate nothing
could stop her if she got a lead if you
get snowballing you can still win games
but because of her lack of any crowd
control mobility that was only just ok
on her cue but nothing special and a
lackluster passive in E she will never
be utilized by any pro players and you
know what
he wasn't exaggerating either for fiora
when she was released in 2012 if you
look at game of legends they do not have
a single game listed there is no data
for fiora up until her rework all of the
other ad carries at least had some stint
in competitive play
Tryndamere had a time as a top laner in
early seasons and then was pretty strong
at one point with AP tryndamere there
was also a build for Master Yi you may
have heard of it called ap Master Yi
which was so broken it had to be
completely gutted out of the game but
fiora she didn't know games whatsoever
again it's not that fiora was so
unlikable there were players that did
play the old fiora but the champions
suffered from some serious unhealthy
design I spoke about in my last
documentary how until he eventually
received a mini rework aatrox was riots
most neglected champion of all time but
fiora was honestly a close second let's
take a look at her patch history her
release was late February of 2012 on the
next patch two weeks later she got a bug
fix after that she had several months of
being pathetically bad so she got a
cool-down decrease on her are great at
the beginning of season 3 on patch 1.000
point 1 5 3 she got a very small buff
which was honestly more of a bug fix on
3.11 she again got another quality of
life change which is helpful but not the
biggest deal in the world on 3.15 she
got a bug fix on 4.1 she got a bug fix
on
point four she got a bug fix on four
point five Wow a buff of four armor okay
great it's been more than two years now
of being terrible so she finally got a
buff to her early game okay maybe a few
are it's gonna be good soon
but then on patch 4.20 for whatever
reason fiora got like a net neutral
change which was sort of a nerf in other
ways so I guess for base armor was just
two o P too much to ask for and that's
it that is literally it for all her
changes she would then be reworked the
next year on patch 5.15 so she was out
for more than three entire years and she
got two small buffs a net neutral change
that was basically a nerf and a few bug
fixes talked about a champion that riot
really doesn't want to be good riots
ultimate goal with her rework was to
make her viable in some capacity
don't leave the champion to be terrible
for years and years on end give her the
tools to outplay her opponents let the
pros express some skill on her and
somebody please pick her in a
competitive match and to their credit
they achieved exactly what they set out
to do
get in the fight man no one attacks down
yet the boomerang goes out not gonna fly
slow
try to do down on the turn branch out is
up now oh dear oh we're large take it
out alright turn the flash to if it's
what you could do with it what is good
for so just to comforts that Bank has it
in wolf to take in a tower hit bang he's
actually for the volatile
yours new abilities in kit was leaked in
the summer of 2015 and the rework
launched very soon after immediately the
design choices leap out at your screen
for yours repulse was now a real ability
a true defensive ability and the fact
that you could not only slow their
attack speed but also reflect crowd
control onto your target was a fresh
idea that perfectly aligned with her
thematic her paths have received a full
overhaul and while it's still built and
sustained into her kid
this approach introduced us to vitals
these vitals have had quite the lifespan
in League of Legends they are one of the
more cool mechanics in the game but also
one of the most frustrating for the few
our player there are a lot of bugs
attached to these vitals making it
counterintuitive to play in use
correctly but for the players playing
against fiora sometimes the randomness
of their location on your body did feel
really bad to play against since it's
such a significant help to fiora in a
1v1 to proc vital after vital after
vital to this day it's been somewhat
remedied as the code has been reworked
and cleaned up and now more often than
not it's easy to know where the next
vitae will be because it usually just
flips to the opposite side but from what
I understand it's still pretty buggy her
new e kept along the same attack speed
beam but now for only two auto attacks
however you get a guaranteed crit on the
second one so if you get off both auto
attacks you're instantly rewarded her
kit and build now resembled much more of
a fighter than a true melee carry with
building items like Black Cleaver
guardian angel spirit visage and death's
dance becoming way more normal rather
than infinity edge and crit ravenous
Hydra is still core to this day and has
almost always been an item that she has
loved but with her new queue applying
on-hit effects in the champion now
loving cooldown reduction this paved the
way for fewer to try building Trinity
force which is now also a staple item
also this is totally off-key and not at
all objective but I really feel like
they ruin the Royal Guard skin with this
rework do you guys agree with me I mean
this used to be one of my favourite
skins in the game but now it's one of
her worst skins I don't know she just
looks weird but you know what at least
she has really nice skins nowadays so I
guess I can't complain
much towards the end of season five we
got the world championship however this
would end up being one of Riots biggest
screw-ups ever it was laughable what
they did for whatever reason they
decided to just blow up the meta and
introduce six brand-new reworks tons of
balanced changes in new items right
before the tournament started
fiora along with gangplank in the
juggernauts were no exception to this
even though they knew that her kit would
be much better that really wasn't the
question the question was how much
better was fiora well the pros answered
that question very quickly because fiora
was ope in general she was never hit as
hard as the others were and it really
showed because fiora's peak came right
along the years of 2016 in 2017 and she
cemented herself as the best top laner
in the game for most of those seasons
and even during some of that time she
was probably the single strongest
champion in the game in fairness to
fiora it's not just that she was strong
but also the meta was perfect for her
this was during the height of the tank
meta in season six in season seven and
because you were mostly playing against
tanks every game that really allowed
fiora to shine
fighters and bruisers in general were
pretty bad but she had the best chance
by far to deal with the tanks as she's
always been an excellent pick into tanks
at the time we suffered from the likes
of tank EKKO top lane maokai and poppy
these champions would build ice-born
gauntlet
Sunfire cape and grasp of the undying
and were completely unkillable for any
other bruiser if you even dared to try
champions like riven are Renekton into
these tanks you had no hope of killing
them after one item and they would start
killing you and dive you under your
tower on two items
fiora though could easily repost echos w
she could definitely deal with mal kai
and out class him but sometimes the
poppy player could still smash her edges
he stops brutalizing duty right now a
gadget shade stunning of dear Lord hot
sir this was also during the time that
na team started to import a lot of
Korean top laners such as someday in
flame and these guys would set the bar
extremely high for the standard of fiora
play in the na LCS they would really
show up the competition there was also
another Korean top laner who was
relatively unknown at the time but would
put himself on the map because of his
insane fiora play and his name was kaan
I would say of anybody's fee or that
I've seen kaan might be right up there
in the argument for being the best he
shows what true mastery of this champion
looks like and he's pulled off some of
the craziest things we've ever seen at
the highest level because of her sheer
domination over the top lane fior would
be nerfed into the ground for months on
end the champion though didn't want to
die in tanks were still prevalent so she
continued to be strong however it all
ended for fiora unpatched 7.14 which was
the last nerf that we've ever seen for
her this was released on July 19th 2017
so it's been more than two years since
we've seen any nurse to fiora the hit to
our ultimate completely losing its
movement speed was a bigger change than
you might expect at first the amount of
movement speed lost alone on your
passive made it difficult to proc your
vitals and dance around your targets not
really letting fiora be the champion
that she's supposed to be however losing
that during Grand Challenge entirely
introduced a lot of counter play to her
kit this movement speed made her so
strong before because it allowed her to
dive people under Tower with ease by
swinging in and out of the tower aggro
they would partially buff this back on
patch 7.16 after many complaints from
the fewer players that this patch
literally killed the champ but there was
something interesting on patch 7.18 riot
would completely revert their change in
buff what was lost on fiora so at this
point you're probably thinking that
Fuhrer is just gonna go right back to
being top tier then if you think that
you would then be wrong because fiora
had a problem and it was one item not
even a completed item but just a
component that would completely negate a
lot of the champions power this was the
introduction of bramble vest on patch
7.14 the same one as the original fiora
nerf we would be introduced to a new
reworked thornmail subsequently a new
component called bramble vest for only
900 gold you were given 35 armor the
ability to reflect damage on to your
attacker and then applied Grievous
wounds which if you know anything about
fiora seems like riot essentially
created an item to counter her after
bramble vest was introduced four would
be dropped down not one or two notches
on the tier list but more like four or
five tanks and more specifically the
ones that built bramble vest would
clobber the top lane meta and bruisers
for the rest of season 7 eventually
bramble vest would be nerfed directly
and tanks themselves would be nerfed too
so you really think that it would be
time for fiora to come back once we got
to season 8 and with the introduction of
a new room for bruisers that being
conquer you really think it would be
time for her to shine this however was
not the case because up until recently
conqueror had true damage a lot of its
power budget meaning how much power it
can have was really tied into that true
damage this was not only redundant for
fiora as the champion already has true
damage but it would also kill off all
the tanks in the meta as we saw in
season 6 in season 7 fiora thrives in
the tank metas being the prototypical
fighter that can cut them down being
honest though for most of season 8 and
honestly most of season 9 she was really
really bad other bruisers were stronger
like Jax Riven and Renekton and tanks
were non-existent if you take a look at
her buff since late season 7 it's pretty
crazy
she's been buffed almost 10 times since
then which brings us to today for season
10 conker has now been reworked and it
acts very similarly to the way that
fervor of battle used to on top of that
a huge portion of its power was removed
with the loss of true damage but instead
converted into more healing and
alone is a monster change for fiora this
means what the loss of true damage tanks
are back in action with champions like
or and making a full comeback this
preseason but fiora also received a ton
of buffs last year because of how bad
she was reposed is now a two second hard
CC on reflection which is gg for most
fighters
if Riven ever third Q's right onto fiora
she's as good as dead on top of that
fiora has now made her name as not only
the best 1v1 split pusher in the late
game but she's now the fastest tower
killer in the game too she received two
direct buffs to her tower pushing her Q
now procs on towers which is not only
great for Xin but it also reduces the
cooldown and her a crit works on the
tower for season 10 take conquer for
your with demolish and the resolve tree
secondary and watch yourself start 1v9
in games she's easily an STR top laner
these days I asked the fee or remains
what their favorite part of the champion
is and what they like about her I think
the thing that draws people to play for
you are the most these days is pretty
nicely summed up by a response from
Scorpio 13 because of her repost fiora
can turn almost any lane into a skill
matchup she can outplay almost anybody
even if the matchup is unfavorable for
example if the jungler tries to gank you
in CC you there's a chance you could
repost it turn it around and get a
double kill fiora is the best split
pusher in the game and it's just fun to
dance around proc vitals in 1v1 people
even though she isn't a very good team
fighter like other fighters that's in
the name of balance or at least you
would hope as a champion who late-game
can one be to your side laners she's
always a fun pick to watch you never
know if a pro is going to go ham on
fiora and win the game by himself in the
side lane you never know what kind of
backdoor nonsense that you'll see from
her and that really keeps the table lane
roll exciting and important to be honest
I don't think she's the most balanced or
even the most fair champion in the game
not by a long shot however she's clearly
one of the most fun and most rewarding
champions in the game and there's
something to say about that too that's
going to do it for today's documentary
if you enjoyed press like and subscribe
and I will see you all
[Music]
you